# Aniline Colors

Orellana (Rocou/Annatto), Ivy, Spinach, Mint, Nettle, Lemon Balm, Safflower Flowers, Aloe, etc., which we limit ourselves to mentioning without going into detail.

**N.B.** All coloring materials should preferably be kept in small containers, for use, and in cool, dark places.

### Aniline Colors

These are the colors commonly known by this name, derived from coal tar. Initially they were extracted only from the bases (aniline, toluidine) contained in said tar; later, however, they came to be obtained by using the various aromatic hydrocarbons contained in the tar (naphthalene, anthracene, etc.). The production of these colors is based on more or less complicated chemical reactions, and the products obtained from them differ in chemical composition and therefore also in coloring properties and characteristics. They come on the market in powder, in crystals, in paste, in pieces: they are of splendid, iridescent color, and for the most part are soluble in water and in alcohol. When mixed with vegetable colors they constitute the so-called "blended colorants." Sometimes they are also found mixed with foreign substances of various kinds, either as thickeners (dextrin), as moderators (sodium sulfate), as mordants (cream of tartar, alum, etc.), or even as fraudulent additions.

The range of these colors is very extensive, and they find wide use in many industries, especially in textile dyeing, owing to the different shades that can be obtained from them. As regards their use for coloring food substances, it is necessary to take into account the chemical function they exhibit, as well as the reaction of the liquid in which they are employed, in order to avoid unpleasant surprises.

It will therefore be appropriate to mention only that they are divided into basic colors and acid colors. Basic ones precipitate in the presence of tannin, and therefore are generally poorly suited for use with vegetable substances; whereas acid ones do not precipitate with this reagent.

The acidic or basic function is described in all treatises or dictionaries of chemistry.

It should also not be forgotten that some of these...

<!-- source page 153 -->
