# Clarification of Liqueurs (continued)

...of volatile oils or resinous substances dispersed throughout the mass.

This method can also be used for liqueurs obtained by maceration, using however only one egg white instead of three.

**2.** Dissolve about 10 grams of isinglass (fish glue), finely chopped, in a little white wine (or water acidulated with vinegar), stirring it from time to time and adding a bit more white wine or acidulated water, until about one liter of well-homogeneous fining solution is obtained. This is then poured into the liqueur, stirring for a couple of minutes. It is then left to rest for several days. This treatment is especially suited for very alcoholic liqueurs.

**3.** Dissolve 20–30 grams of gelatin in a [liter] of hot water. Proceed as with the isinglass treatment.

Colorless and less alcoholic liqueurs are treated in this way.

For very delicate liqueurs, starch may also be used. For 10 liters of liqueur, use 50 grams of starch dissolved in about 300 grams of water with 100 grams of sugar. The fining preparation, made hot, is poured into the liquid to be clarified while stirring continuously. It is left to settle for two days.

We should finally note that some unscrupulous liqueur-makers resort to the use of lead acetate for clarification, all the more readily since the operation works quite well this way.

We refrain from describing this procedure, the use of which moreover constitutes a crime punishable under current laws, lead acetate being a potent poison.

A very simple and effective means of clarification consists in the use of shredded filter-paper pulp, which can be applied in any case, though it sometimes requires special equipment. The pulp is added to the liquid to be clarified, and after it has swollen, the container is shaken vigorously and the liquid is filtered, preferably through cloth, taking care to avoid losses through evaporation. The same pulp can be reused, though of course only for clarifying the same liqueur.

Especially for clarifying liqueurs that have become cloudy due to the pre...

<!-- source page 195 -->
