# Depuration of Juices

...minced, washed and dried; if the material is of a nature quite mucilaginous, gelatinous or elastic, the opening is tied in such a manner that solid particles cannot escape: it is placed in the press, or gradually squeezed: the pulp of citrons and other similar fruits must be thoroughly remixed when operating on a large scale, so as to extract all the juice. By this operation the juice passes through the tissue, collecting in the vessels destined to receive it.

## Depuration

To deprive the juices obtained by pressing of the parenchyma, chlorophyll, other colouring substances, starch, and other insoluble bodies which cloud the transparency of said freshly pressed juices and dispose them to rapid deterioration, they are subjected to depuration: this is practised in several manners and must be in relation to their use and their nature.

The majority of juices are depurated in two manners: by mechanical methods and by chemical methods.

### Depuration by Mechanical Methods

This is effected by resting, decantation, straining and filtration.

Resting must be considered more as a preliminary means to other mechanical means indicated, than as a means of depuration in itself. It is indispensable for viscous and albuminous juices before subjecting them to filtration or to decantation, which serves to separate them from their sediment. Rest is useless for acidic, aqueous, very fluid juices.

Decantation never manages to supply a perfectly clarified juice, hence it cannot be used except when perfect transparency of these liquids is not rigorously necessary.

Filtration is used nowadays instead of coagulation. It is operated with paper, with woollen cloths, and with linen fabrics.

If paper or woollen cloths are employed, the operation is called filtration; if the fabric is of thread, the operation is called straining.

Woollen cloths are ordinarily employed to depurate juices extracted by cooking, and linen fabrics for those obtained by maceration.

<!-- source page 289 -->
