# Coloring Tinctures

The juice, thus purified, is less subject to fermentation and is therefore very safe.

Following this procedure, juices of plums and apricots are also prepared.

## Wild Plum

Once the fruits are crushed by hand, they are passed through two wooden cylinders positioned above a suitable vat; they are left for 25 hours in maceration in their own juice in order to effect the dissolution of the coloring matter contained in the skin; the juice is then pressed and poured into bottles of large capacity or into earthenware jars covered with paper; two days later, or once the juice has settled, it is filtered through cheesecloth.

The juice of elderberry and other plums are prepared in the same manner.

## Coloring Tinctures

We have already indicated the principal coloring substances that constitute the raw materials; we shall now expound how these are treated in order to utilize them in the coloration of liqueurs, noting however that to obtain the various gradations of tints the manufacturer will know how to modify, in the mixtures, the proportions that we set forth here.

As a general rule it is good to keep in mind that coloring tinctures must be absolutely fluid and clear for the complete dissolution of the coloring matter. To obtain this, as a standard procedure, one shall proceed as follows when not otherwise indicated.

Suspend, stirring them, 5–10 grams of the pulverized coloring substance in 1 liter of boiling distilled water and shake vigorously at several successive intervals. After complete dissolution and any necessary filtration, add to the cooled tincture 8–10% of 85° alcohol and 500 grams of sugar syrup, the latter to prevent the coloring matter from settling on the walls of the bottle.

**Note.** — Coloring tinctures must be kept away from light.

<!-- source page 294 -->
