# Purification of Juices by Chemical Methods

The juice of sour and black cherries always retains the same degree of density after filtration.

The juice of very ripe lemons loses one degree with filtration; strawberry juice [loses] the same; raspberry juice [loses] the same; currant juice [loses] the same; orange juice (the pulp) [loses] the same; juice of ripe apples or pears [loses] one degree.

Juices that do not change in density through filtration pass clear, generally, at the first moment; conversely, those that lose density are those requiring the first portions to be returned to filtration.

What remains on the filter is more aromatic than the juices that were expressed from it.

Filtered juices preserve for less time than juices subjected to coagulation.

## Purification by Chemical Methods

Albuminous juices are subjected to coagulation for the preparation of extracts and syrups, in order to render the products of fine appearance and longer durability.

Coagulation of juices is performed by exposing them to the action of heat; under this action the albumin unites in the form of a net and, rising through the liquid, gathers and carries with it the suspended matter, presenting itself at the surface in the form of thickened foam. Coagulation is performed in the open air for odourless juices; but for those endowed with particular aroma and which are to be transformed into syrup, they are introduced into closed vessels so that nothing of their aromatic qualities is dispersed.

Juices coagulated by means of heat are: 1st, less coloured and less odorous than those that have undergone fermentation; 2nd, pass more easily through paper filter without glue; 3rd, become less dense; 4th, only 50° or 56° [of heat] suffice to effect the coagulation of albumin in juices. Some juices lose from half to two degrees with coagulation after having undergone filtration.

Alcohol, vegetable acids, certain mineral acids and acidic juices are employed to coagulate juices. Some of these not only serve to purify them, but even augment their properties. The clarification of juices by means of albumin and heat, as well as that with [continued on next page]...

<!-- source page 290 -->
