# Fruit Liqueurs

## Fruit Liqueurs

### Ratafìa or Liqueurs from Fresh Fruit

The base of these liqueurs is the juice of fresh fruit treated with alcohol and the possible addition of aromatic substances.

When the juice is poor in aroma, this can be intensified by means of artificial ethers (of raspberry or cherry, etc.), which sometimes, however, impart an unpleasant flavor to the liqueur.

Fruit ratafìas generally have an alcohol content of 25% or less, and are sweetened with 20% sugar.

Naturally, they must be prepared in the appropriate season, and it is absolutely essential to use fruit of excellent quality, well ripened, fresh, and carefully cleaned and prepared.

In other cases, one can make use of juices previously prepared for the purpose, or also of tinctures or alcoholic extracts.

These juices are prepared by simply pressing the fruit and adding 1/4 of the weight in fine alcohol. They are preserved in tightly sealed containers in a cool environment. With long resting, the juices become crystal clear, making filtration unnecessary.

When preparing ratafìas with such juices, it is necessary that the juice already contain a certain amount of alcohol. The recipe must therefore be modified, observing that 5 liters of prepared juice are equivalent to 4 liters of simple juice with the addition of 1 liter of alcohol.

Cherry liqueur (Kirsch) is generally less sweet. The addition of cherry juice to raspberry liqueur, if the latter is too weak, proves advantageous, whereas cherry liqueur should have a small amount of essential oil of bitter almonds added to it.

As a general rule, we note that ratafìas must be prepared cold and by maceration of the fruit in alcohol, with the possible addition of aromatic substances.

<!-- source page 555 -->
