# VI. AROMATIZED WINES

# VI. Aromatized Wines

To complete the program we have established for this Manual, it now remains only for us to discuss aromatized wines, which constitute the final category in the classification of liqueurs we have adopted.

As we have already declared, however, we shall limit ourselves to only a few remarks on these products. First, because they can only partly interest the liqueur manufacturer, while several belong more properly either to the oenological industry or even to the specialized trade of coffee makers or to domestic economy; and secondly, because, with the exception of Vermouth and certain bitter wines, today they have almost completely fallen out of use (such as Hydromel and Hypocras), whereas in the past they enjoyed great esteem and were extraordinarily widespread. We shall finally note how the plurality of bitter wines possess medicinal action, being composed on the basis of medicinal plant substances; and therefore their preparation is particularly the province of pharmacists and not of liqueur manufacturers.

We shall accordingly begin by treating Vermouth; then follow with bitter wines, orange wines called Bishops (Vescovo), mulled wines (Vini Brulé), May herb wines, Hypocras, Hydromel, and finally fruited liqueur wines.

## Vermouth

Vermouth, as is well known, constitutes a pleasant aperitif which, by its composition, represents the bridge between wine and liqueurs, being an alcoholized, aromatized, and bitterized wine, rich in sugar, which thus reunites the characteristics of both wine and liqueurs.

---

*(1) We recommend the Manual in this collection: Coffee-maker and Sorbetmaker by Manotti.*

*(2) We refer to the Domestic Recipe Book of this Collection, 7th edition.*

<!-- source page 662 -->
